>> Steve Kinney: All right, so let's
talk about another approach called tRPC.
You might have also heard
of things like gRPC.
The idea is the same, it's just the first
letter that is different, right?
tRPC, the T stands for TypeScript.
gRPC, the G stands for Google,
who also own the language Go,
which is the first two letters of Google.
But the RPC part is
the part that's the same,
which is this idea of
a remote procedure call.
The caveat obviously,
if we have not figured that out already,
is that this one does.
It theoretically implies that
your API is in TypeScript.
Now, a pattern that exists for lots of
reasons, most of which should be somewhat
obvious is, there is a pattern sometimes
called back end for front end, which is.
And there are lots of reasons
why you might do this pattern,
Walmart did it famously for
a while, which is, you put,
if you don't like the API
contract in your back end.
And we're not just talking about,
you don't like it because it's gross.
You don't like it because it's in Fortran,
right?
I think Walmart had to do this where you
kind of paper over your older legacy APIs
that are like SOAP or XML or whatever,
in, you paper over it once, so
that everyone in the company doesn't
ever have to deal with it again, right?
And so even if the backend team is
maybe in a different language and
you can't make use of this,
you can still put a layer over where
you can then ultimately use this one.
So just because your backend is not
in TypeScript does not mean that this
approach is off the table.
But like, super useful if you need a very,
very flexible API,
you still might want to consider like,
something like this if for
instance, you do have, very heavy
API responses from a legacy API.
There are parts to this where even
if the furthest backend backend
is not in TypeScript,
you might choose to do this.
Because sometimes doing
this stuff server side,
close to the data is easier than sending
everything over the wire to deal with it.
Particularly if you're working with mobile
or like low bandwidth, stuff like that.
And the nice part is, again,
once you define the kind of contract,
you can begin to generate
all of the rest and
keep those contracts in place versus
having to implement it all by hand.
So like I said, especially too,
it's like, hey,
we're still figuring out
what this experience is and
we don't necessarily even know what the
API contract ought to have been, right?
It becomes incredibly useful.
And sometimes you end up in
legacy situations, right?
A company that I worked at that
sends emails for a living,
to actually construct the current
user was like six API calls,
right, and
then you could wire that all together.
Now, you can do that client-side,
right, or
you can choose to put layers that
abstract that, so on and so forth.
And sometimes you didn't
need all that data.
Lots of reasons why you
might take this approach.
But effectively, it sits,
the services could be,
microservice is my backend
written in other languages.
It could even be ones in Node,
your databases, so on and so forth.
But again, you are just trying
to put an abstraction over that,
that that will then let you build on top
of it and resolve it as we go along.
So there is a little bit
of kinda pieces in here.
This is the client side where you
just grab the type of the route.
It's not dissimilar from what we
just saw with the OpenAPI schemas,
where we could generate an entire
client just based on the types.
You can do very something
very similar here as well.
And what's kind of cool about
it is it will send stuff,
you can even do,
like updates over WebSockets.
It's all kind of built in.
And you begin to just say
what you want to grab.
And we'll see it in practice.
It'll be a little better.
This is the fits on a slide version.
So this is the server side implementation,
where you would grab the @trpc/server,
you kind of just go ahead and
create a server.
And then you have a router, right?
And so for instance,
this router will support, again, hello,
which will send back this string.
And, like, we just export the type.
So we just effectively
are coming up with a contract.
This contract is interesting because it
also gets to be the implementation, right?
So now, if somebody wants to
call the Hello procedure, right?
Basically, it's almost like, instead of
calling APIs and getting responses back,
think of it like you can remotely
call functions on the server and
get the stuff back.
So this procedure is really,
you can basically call hello and
you're going to get back this string.
You're not necessarily worried about
what's the path for that and what are,
all those things.
It's basically a contract that is exposed
to you that then all the transport
will be handled for you.
On the client, again, you can see that
we do create the proxy client, but then
we can just call trpc.hello, and query it,
versus mutate it, so on and so forth.
Some of these terms might sound like
GraphQL, and if you've never used GraphQL,
you don't need to know
anything about GraphQL.
So it's fine.
And then call it, and so we can call
different things with different
parameters, only get back part of the data
that we want and send less over the wire.
With a regular old HTTP request,
obviously, if you hit that endpoint,
you could get fancy with the query params
and what you do and don't want to see, but
you're doing a lot of that by hand.
This kind of gives you the ability to call
things as you need it and pass in options.
And when we see it in practice,
it's pretty, pretty nice.
So it does, again, it is in TypeScript.
So for a lot of smaller things,
definitely like useful.
It is not a totally
separate kind of server,
where you're installing Apollo or
whatever to get GraphQL support.
It is just effectively TypeScript
at the end of the day.
But it allows you to be very custom.
It does have some caveats, which,
again, only for TypeScript.
Like you probably, either you own
the backend for the frontend, or
you own the backend, right?
But generally speaking,
you probably want to own at least
some server side component as well.
Obviously, it's tricky.
We did it to great success at Twilio,
but also,
you know what everything supports?
Regular old HTTP and REST clients.
There's always going to
be better tooling for
that stuff despite all of the things I
just told you about why this is great.
But again, in the ways of
solving this problem that we've
been tackling from multiple different
angles, it's a particularly interesting.
At the very least, knowing that it
exists in case you need it is probably
also worth your time,
even if you don't have an immediate use,
cuz it solved a very,
very large problem for us.
So, where does it fit?
All-in on TypeScript?
Definitely, we used it for a large project
because we were young and stupid, but
it worked out, so who cares?
But we also were trying to create
one abstraction because every team
was putting their own abstraction
over the Java backends and whatever.
We were trying to solve
a different problem with it.
But mostly that third
bullet point of many,
many different teams needing to do
slightly different things as we go along.